Final_Project_Proposal.md, before:

# Final Project Proposal (Donmoyer)

## Objectives
The objective of this project is to integrate the data from the FracFocus registry into R for statistical analysis. A code will be developed that will be able to pull information on a given hydraulic fracking fluid ingredient from any specific state. The code will then be used for analysis on a given ingredient throughout the country.

## Data sources
The data source that will be used in this project is from an SQL database that can be downloaded here. Fracfocus.org is a public repository that hosts information on hydrualic fracking fluids from public disclosures. The database that fracfocus uses is an SQL database and can be downloaded as a backup database (or .bak file). The backup database can be restored using an SQl Server Management Studio application. Once the database is restored, multiple packages in R can be used to query from this database.

## Languages Used
This coding language that will be used for this project is R. An application (SQL Server Management Studio) will be used in the data restoration process instead of using R.

## Implementation
Uses

## Expected Products

## Questions for insturctor

Commit message:

addded more description and some links

Final_Project_Proposal.md, after:

# Final Project Proposal

## Objectives
Hydraulic fracking fluids are large solutions of chemicals used for recovering oil and gas in unconventional shale plays. The overall usage of specific chemcials in the industry is poorly understood by researchers, however a large database hosted by Fracfocus.org reports hydraulic fracking fluids compositions in a manner that is unorganized and hard to manage. The objective of this project is to develop a script in R to query data from the Fracfoucs registry to report on specific hydraulic fracking fluids used by the industry. The script will also be used to preform statistal analysis on specific ingredients to help understand which ingredients the industry as a whole is preferring to use. The script will be developed to report data from West Virginia specifically on Oxidizers in fracking fluids, however the code will be able to work for any ingredient or area that is reported in the database.

## Data sources
The data source that will be used in this project is from an SQL database hosted by Fracfocus.org and can be downloaded #### [here]http://fracfocus.org/data-download. Fracfocus.org is a public repository that hosts information on hydrualic fracking fluids from public disclosures. The database that fracfocus uses is an SQL database and can be locally downloaded as a backup database (or .bak file). The backup database can then be restored using an SQl Server Management Studio application. Once the database is restored, multiple packages in R can be used to query from this database.

## Languages Used
The coding language that will be used for this project is R. An application (SQL Server Management Studio) will be used in the data restoration process.

## Implementation
I will use R to develop a working script to pull data on any given hydraulic fracking fluid ingredient that is listed in the Fracfoucs database. Hydraulic fracking fluids are divided into categorires based on usage (oxidizer, geling agent, friction reducer etc.) Further, each category may contain various ingredients in each category. The script will work by compiling information on a given category and which ingredient is most popular in that specific category. Then the script will be able to report statistics on the ingredients such as which ingredient is most used, least used and mean concentration (weight % in the frackig fluid). 

## Expected Products
The expected products from this project is datatables or charts that represent data on the ingredients from each category. Also, data tables for any specific ingredient could be made. I am interested in the category oxidizers (also known as breakers) and expect to make a data table that represents which oxidziers are most used in the state of West Virginia and at which concentrations these oxidizers are being used at by the industry.

## Questions for insturctor
Do you think I can do this (: ?
Which packages are going to be the most useful R?
I have done some reading and tried following the information provided #### [Here]https://db.rstudio.com/getting-started/database-queries/ with little luck. I am having trouble connecting R to the database I restored.
